<h1> Phase-Locked-Loop-using-skywater-130nm </h1>
The basic agenda of this workshop was to design a Phase-Locked Loop using an Open-Source Google-Skywater 130nm node. In this workshop, tools like are Ngspice and Magic are used. Considering a layout and an end product(IC) perspective, the mathematical design aspects are totally avoided here, thus making this workshop a learn-by-doing program. A pre-requisites of Basic Electronics is sufficient.

<body style="background-color:powderblue;">
<h1> What is Phase Locked Loop (PLL) </h1>
<h4 align="justify">Today‟s era of the Integrated circuit (IC) has really changed the way how we see the outer world. The journey of Integrated Circuit (IC) technology is about to reach its
zenith soon. IC technology has become an integrated part of today‟s life. These developments are mainly because of the rapid advancements in digital technology
which has paved the way for such advancements. Scaling capability, reduced area, and minimum power consumption are the key attributes of Metal oxide semiconductor (MOS) technology, but what does has made the CMOS technology a consistent performer in the technology marathon is its agility to different processes, easy re-design, and effortlessness behavior even in the sub-threshold region. Since many analog blocks are inevitably being used in several mixed-mode IC designs, the performance metrics of such analog blocks favor a thorough re-design and hence will be a crucial step in the entire fabrication process. To overcome this glitch the complete digitization of the entire process has carved the way for many opportunities in the system on chips (SoCs). The main advantage of digital technology is its versatility in adopting any technological scaling as and when the design process changes. Advantages like better reusability with the minimized area, power, and better integration are the results of a digital intensive approach [Homayoun and Razavi, 2013](http://www.seas.ucla.edu/brweb/papers/Journals/HRTCASMar13.pdf). One of the foremost blocks that has seen a tremendous rise in its usage in the recent past is a phase-locked loop (PLL) system in communication systems. (Hwang et al., 2008; Kim et al., 2010; Kazeminia et al., 2013; Kailuke et al., 2014). The most widely used component in almost all communication system blocks for frequency synthesis and data recovery is PLL. Cell phones, Laptops, Televisions, communication devices are a few examples that depend on PLLs to perform properly. </h4></body>

